(upbeat music)
- Damn, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
fucking no.
- Greg, that's me.
- What episode is this?
- Dave, yes, Nick.
- This is episode 41.
- It is.
- Oh, all right.
- We've done this 41 fucking times.
Wow, when does it ever end?
When we all die.
- It'll be close to six, it'll be six years this fall.
- Jesus.
- Which is kinda like, yeah, it's at least five.
- I'll have to check.
That's nuts.
- Yeah.
- Who would've thought we had that much to talk about?
- Keeps going.
- The trash just keeps coming.
- Yeah, it's endless.
The endless dumpster dive.
- So yeah, this is sorta not related to that,
but it occurred to me today, this morning,
that I've had a very weird sonic week.
- In a good way?
- Ew!
- I'll leave that up for you to decide.
- Almost basically to the minute a week ago,
started out this week at the Monster Truck Rally
in downtown Pittsburgh.
- Yeah.
- Yes.
- It was a good start.
- As one should.
- It was just, it's just cacophonic.
It's just, it's so loud and it is,
I mean, it's garbage.
It's truly horrific.
I mean, it fills the arena with fumes,
but it's as a noise show, it's stellar.
Follow that up a couple days later,
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
Yo-yo, mom performing.
- Yes.
- And that was completely different, like 180.
- It was beautiful.
It really was astounding.
And the first part,
started with a Serjay, I'm gonna fuck this name up.
- Go for it.
- Prokoviev?
- Sounds good to me.
- Fair enough.
They did the Romeo and Juliet Opus.
It's fucking fire.
- It's really, it's a beautiful piece.
- Good drops?
- Oh, it was classical.
So like the buildup is like 12 minutes long
and then there's a drop.
- Was that to celebrate the new Skrillex album?
(laughing)
- Skrillex, I don't believe was an attendance.
I didn't see them.
- He did just drop a new album.
- Yeah.
- Yesterday.
- Are you excited?
- Read my Facebook.
What does that say?
- It's the first album on 10 years day.
- Yeah.
- It's been 10 fucking years.
- Oh yeah.
- It accompanies the rebranding of Skrillex.
- Yeah.
- No more brostep.
- Oh, what's the move now?
- I listened to the first track and it was House.
- Oh, okay.
- With dubstep elements.
- 'Cause he's doing like the back to back to back
with Fortet and Fred again.
And they like just played on the lot radio yesterday.
- Okay.
- So it's like his entry into the, you know, other side
of one other other side, but like the other,
one of the other worlds of dance music in like,
short hair now, he looks like, you know,
dressed in black looking like, looking like,
he could go into Beargut and it wouldn't be too bad.
- Right, except the fact that like,
he's always gonna be Skrillex.
So that's, that's, baggage is gonna be very hard to unload.
- Yeah.
- He's trying to leave the brostep behind him.
They've seen the past, he's turned his back on that.
It's a new man.
- Turned a new, a new leaf.
- Yeah.
- Give him a chance, Dave.
- I mean, I will listen to it.
- I'm just joking.
- I will listen to it out of curiosity.
My faith that this is.
- I got about 30 seconds into it.
- Okay.
- I'm gonna turn it off.
- Yeah.
- Now he's gonna be in the basement of lab
and Beargut and taking piss in his mouth.
(laughing)
Listening to fucking Boris pound the room out
and fucking, it's a different world, man.
You're not cleaning up cake pieces
when Steve Aoki's done and you get back in the mix
and fucking Coachella.
(laughing)
- Not today, man.
- Well, hopefully he's listening to the cautionary tale
that you provided.
- You should have thought.
In the basement of a German fucking industrial building.
- The day after this episode goes live,
you just see that headlines,
Skrillex calls it quits.
(laughing)
- Reasons unknown.
- So yeah, Skrillex was not on my list
of the things that I experienced this week.
And then last night was Claire Ralsay at a Warhol Museum.
- Yeah.
- Fucking astounding.
But again, another like 180,
not 180 back into Monster Truck Jam,
but like 180 into like a different dimension.
It was like field recordings and ambient textures
and like vocal recordings and shit.
- Lot of auto tune, like scene through auto tune.
- In a way that wasn't unpleasant,
like I think I fit the aesthetic
and like guitar stuff that didn't,
that wasn't upsetting.
And it's like acoustic guitar can be sometimes
in that context.
It was good.
Sound quality for their sound is exceptional.
- Absolutely, yeah.
- It's really good.
Props to the sound person, you kind of do that.
- Absolutely.
I've seen a couple of things there at the Warhol that,
I mean, sometimes it's not great,
but when it's on, it's fucking on.
It's not a bad place to see things.
Also chairs.
- Chairs.
- I'm getting old.
I appreciate now shows with chairs.
Comfy chairs too.
- Yeah, I saw Claire, she tweeted too, saying she played
like a soft set because she was like,
oh, people are sitting down.
And maybe that wasn't the expectation.
So I was like, I'm gonna play like my soft set.
And I don't know, that's out my alley anymore, you know?
- Oh, yes.
- Hearing issues aside, I'm just kind of like,
what like rounded soft things.
I'm like feeling, feeling my age a little bit.
- Funny, I know I was just talking to David about that
before you showed up.
I was like, I want a big comfy couch.
I was like, I kind of hurt lately.
And I just want to be fucking comfortable.
It's like, what's wrong with that?
- I can't just sit on a floor anymore, be okay.
- Yeah.
- Done that a lot.
- Put in some time.
- And like slept on like just hardwood floors
or concrete floors at the back of a venue
or at someone's base.
- And abandoned bee packing plants.
- Yeah.
- And Detroit.
We've all done our fair share of,
- And like hopped up the next morning
and like, you know, sort of like cracked your back
and was like, ugh, I'm gonna feel that.
And then like, just walk away.
Where now I'd be like incapacitated.
I would just be out for that.
Like, well, I'm done for the weekend boys.
- Someone get me the car, I'll just lay in the back seat.
- I used to sleep in your van.
- Yes.
- I can't even imagine doing that right now.
I'd probably be fucked for a couple of days.
Like, did you sleep on the floor
or on the couch that I saw it in half and just--
- The blue Muppet couch.
- Yeah.
- Slept on both.
It wasn't like a fix to the floor,
anything it was just a couch thrown in the back of the van.
And as you would drive, it would just slide around.
It was, it was awesome, is what it was.
- It was, I was an RIP that van.
- Yeah.
- We went on some adventures in that van.
- I remember my first time in that van.
I was like, wow.
(laughing)
- The fuck is going on here.
- Best $400, I ever spent.
RIP of that van and RIP are back.
All those lights.
(laughing)
- And the pink boom box.
- Oh yeah, that stole.
- That got stolen in Detroit.
That had the Randy Macha Man Savage rap CD in it.
- Yeah.
- It did.
They busted open the window of the,
and that's the only thing they stole.
So it was like hundreds of dollars to replace the window
for a $5 boom box and an even less valued CD that I was like.
- What are you talking about?
That CD's priceless, Dave.
- I mean, rare art effects.
- I think it is a negative value.
- Come across it, you actually owe somebody money.
- But you're a man, Hulk.
- Oh, I mean, I remember it because it was the only CD
we listened to driving from Pittsburgh to Detroit.
- Five hours.
- On repeat.
- Yes.
- I've had a taste of that venom before.
(laughing)
- You know, now that we're, now we're attaining this out loud,
it never occurred to me.
What if someone we were with,
pretended to break in?
- Just to take it hard.
- Yes.
(laughing)
- I'm starting to suspect.
- No, they broke right in.
- That was awesome.
- Good.
- Running away.
- Damn, your boom box is gone.
They all know and the CD.
- I can't jump my hand.
- Bit dull.
- It's right after.
- Is that a piece of glass?
(laughing)
- It's weird to didn't take anything else.
- I did not think solving a crime
would be on our agenda for this episode.
- Yeah, where are we going?
- Yeah.
- We were talking about Yo-Yo Ma.
- Yeah, I was talking about it.
- Yeah, pretty much.
- Ooh, man.
(laughing)
- That checks out.
- Yeah.
- That's how we're rolling today, folks.
We gotta roll with the punches.
- It's Saturday and a sunny but cold Pittsburgh.
- Yeah.
- So what's on everyone else's list?
I mean, I'm only one with a paper list.
Everyone else is using technology.
- How about digital lists, you know?
- Digital list as well.
- Yeah, what do I have personally?
What did I say last time?
Wasn't gonna shuffle anything.
Of course, per standard, shuffle to bunch of shit.
ER 301 left the mix and that kind of funded
the rest of the adventure.
They did wanna talk about the ER 301 really briefly.
Like 'cause I had that thing for a number of years.
- Yeah.
- I guess my end summary with it is like,
just use a computer.
And I don't mean that to like,
it's a really cool object.
It's awesome.
A lot of the stuff was just a little,
a lot harder to do than in Ableton to be honest
or with even MaxForLive and up.
People would liken that thing to like,
Max MSP in like module.
And it was nothing near that.
It was more like Ableton, you know,
effect swim lanes with some like modulation
and ability to like, you know, affect those things.
But never had quite the power you would want.
A lot of limits.
And for me, it was just like,
I used it in like one kind of track
that I have in the Q to finish.
And other than that, like a live set.
And it just never quite gelled for me.
As soon as I kind of got rid of it
and put some simpler things in space,
it was like, ah, like it was a,
the feeling I expected of like kind of a weightlifting.
Even though when I shipped it to the person,
I was like, oh, it's like,
gave all these instructions as though it was like,
my daughter going to school or something like that.
And it likes to be read a bedtime story.
And if it gets a little gassy, just hit it on the back.
Yeah.
I mean, it's definitely a jack of all trades master
and non-type thing.
It has some cool stuff.
You can do like, you know, six or 10 track,
like 96 kilohertz recording and shit like that.
But the latency's still a little high
for like drum use for what I'm doing.
Yeah. And I've just been interested in some like,
flatter stuff.
And so accordingly picked up a couple of things
and I'll talk about mainly like Cosmex Pro
and Sophia from Zalk Chaos Devices,
both fucking astounding.
So if I have my drawers,
I'm dying to know what you think of the Sophia.
Oh, Sophia?
Yeah.
I've had my eye on that one since it was announced.
It's like, I was thinking the past couple of days
about how to explain it given like there are these, you know,
it's a single oscillator and you can kind of blend
between two different like,
ways of affecting it.
Like it has these elements and these ripples
and they're kind of like,
I'll do a terrible job of explaining this.
You can research some of the technical stuff,
but I can talk about it as a user of it.
And what I'm looking for right now is like,
really liking analog stuff and the ability
to like push it a little kind of like,
I have this button variable waveform generator,
I really like that because of the different options it has.
And the Sophia is one of the coolest,
like we were saying last night a little,
I'd love a book that like compiles all the ways
you can treat an analog oscillator and the things you can do.
Cause the sounds it can make are like really interesting
in the way that it can like kind of morph an analog waveform.
You can kind of switch between like fundamentals.
Like you asked me last night,
it looks like Odessa very similarly.
Couldn't be more different.
That's like a digital additive thing.
This is like pure analog and wow,
it's got like the juice to it.
Like literal like kind of like squirty,
almost like a juicy analog like weirdness that happens.
It's really good at patching itself.
It's got a number of outputs, like fundamental outputs.
And then like these kind of ripple outputs,
but you can kind of fade between these two types of elements
to get these different like alterations
of this core analog oscillator.
Like how are you setting up the thing
that you're morphing between?
- You're kind of just setting the level
to which these warping and damp controls like a back to,
like those are the sliders you get to like warp and damp.
I like the way you tune it to.
You just get like a fine tune and then octave control,
which I really love.
I don't like course tune very much anymore.
I just want to know where C or whatever it's set to is.
And then an octave control.
And you get each of these elements on each side basically.
You get like a main output.
And then you kind of get this fundamental output as well.
And then like an A out and a B out.
So each side has its own output,
even though it's coming from the same like core.
And it's got a global FM control, damp warp,
and then ratio controls.
And when you think of ratio, you would think like FM,
but it's not quite.
My understanding is it creates kind of these ripples
harmonically within this oscillator core
in a way that I've never seen like another thing.
I don't like straight up wave folding very much.
Like it's a sound that almost is like
nails on chalkboard to me when it's not done subtly.
And this to me like gives kind of that subtle harmonic change
and like the ability to like,
that like it's a rubbery like squirtiness of the oscillator,
I think is like really well suited
to the kind of techno stuff I'm doing now.
Like taking in analog oscillator
and twisting it harmonically in a way
that's like interesting but not super predictable.
And I also realized I'm have the Pittsburgh flamingo,
which is a harmonic interpolation, you know, processor,
if you will, you run a waveform into it
and it gives this like center folding.
It was an old Don Buchl's circuit.
And I'd always struggled to kind of find a use
for it musically,
maybe because I was running like digital oscillators
that were already complex into it.
But this pairs up with it like perfectly.
I would like, I would,
I wish I could just like mash it into the face plate somehow
and have those options there
'cause I would always probably use them together.
And it lets you twist like the harmonics a bit more
in a way that borders on wave folding,
but sounds a little more wet
and a little less mechanical on the host.
And it's just like, I didn't expect,
I kind of expected, you know,
my friend Luke like recommended to me,
it was like, oh, you would really like this, you know,
this is like crazy.
And the more samples I heard, I'm like,
oh, this is really unique.
And then got it and just like kind of,
it's my go to analog oscillator right now.
Using it for everything,
it's just got a really nice sound
that isn't too niche.
It could feel like regular oscillator duties.
I usually have it in the sign mode though
and not like square fundamental
'cause I like how that sounds.
It's just a little smoother.
Really like it, even for the real estate,
I just think they nailed it.
I like it even more than Odessa
if I would have to pick one of them.
I think it's the one that's more useful
to me musically in a way than Odessa,
which is kind of this like really special effect,
like native instruments,
razor type additive thing, which is cool,
but not as useful generally.
I can see like having two cepheas
and using it just to have two separate voices musically.
Very different sound than the analog oscillators I have.
Not quite classic, not quite modern.
If you want to bucket it that way,
it's just really like good sound.
Definitely recommend it.
How does it hold up the low end?
Very well, that's a good question
'cause a lot of that stuff can fall apart in there
and I think the low end is kind of where it shines.
Like Odessa has a little low end,
but not like you wouldn't use it for a bass
and this I would use for like bass stuff almost constantly,
easily.
It's really good at that and shines at it.
Yeah, I really liked Odessa for like texture duties.
Yeah, it's great for that.
Like really like sci-fi, you know,
it's UFO sounds and like really warpy, like pitch shifty,
for sure.
So yeah, it's super impressive.
It's really got me interested,
like I've been doing a lot of stuff on the analog side of things
whereas I felt like I was focusing on like digital oscillators
especially for a long time.
And it's just like nailing the sound
that I'm kind of going for with my stuff right now.
So I'm super, super happy I got it.
It's awesome.
It's rad.
I can talk about something on the flip side of it.
Oh yeah?
Um, similar like how you're saying you're like your folks on digital.
That's kind of where I've been at for a while now.
Mm-hmm.
Just kind of an avoiding analog stuff.
Not intentionally, just kind of like just hasn't been attracting my years.
Yeah.
Um, one of the weirdest things that I've purchased was like last year.
In episode 35 we were talking about a thing called VIC.
I don't know if you guys remember.
I do.
So.
Yeah, I'll do a brief recap I guess, case anyone.
I don't remember it at all.
I remember the name.
So VIC was a module that just like popped up out of nowhere by a independent manufacturer
called Forge TME or ForgeTime.
It's a wave table based oscillator like purely digital that has some onboard generative and
processing functions built in.
Um, it kind of reminded me of like a piston Honda on acid.
Mm-hmm.
Like, um, I purchased it on a whim.
It just like popped up on ModWiggler one day.
The guy was like, this is my module.
I've been working on it for two years throughout the pandemic.
You can order it directly through me and you had some YouTube videos.
It was a cool post.
It was.
It was like really cool.
And like the description of it was the VIC twists, convulses and walls in a vortex-haunted
spitting dirt and dust time and raw energy.
Rapid shadows, alien physics, pulsating artifacts, sometimes ridiculous, sometimes
possessed.
I was like, I'm sold.
Yeah, I'm fucking married.
The videos are cool.
That description caught my attention and like the sound was like very raw, very experimental.
And it was just available as you posted it.
You know what I mean?
There was no teasing.
There was no kick starters.
There was no bullshit.
It was just, this is the thing that I built.
You can buy it.
Um.
I appreciate it.
I like that sort of no teasing, no hype just as is.
Yeah.
I appreciate it a lot.
At the same time though, it kind of felt sussy.
Like you know what I mean?
It was kind of like, it felt like a risky purchase to me.
Yeah.
Because they had no track record, nothing but I took the jump, I purchased it and was
like immediately having fun building like industrial, you know, textures and soundscapes
with it.
So based on that description, did it actually evoke that written description?
It did.
Okay.
So it was accurate.
Yeah.
Dude knew what he was going for when he built it.
And he nailed it in my opinion.
Um, it wasn't perfect.
You know what I mean?
Like it was a really cool module, but there was a few ideas that I had that would have
made it better.
And there was only 50 made at the time too.
So they're like, yeah, it was very few.
But the people that had it similar to myself, like we were all kind of into it and posting
suggestions.
Did it have a microprocessor that could be updated?
It was something that you know, like, oh, these are great ideas.
And then there's going to be 1.1 firmware and you can get all of your ideas.
And it will immediately like myself and a few others that had it started coming up
with like some feedback and posting it on the ModWiggler thread that he had made.
Um, and he was like very receptive to it.
Um, and he said like, you know, he did a short bash of these, but he was already coming
up with his own ideas for like a future version.
Okay.
Nobody knew if this would be an update or hardware vision or what or like an expansion.
Like we were talking about maybe doing an expander at some point that would add like
CV over the generative functions and things like that.
So he was like paying attention to everyone's feedback and asking for more.
And now as of like a week ago, he mentioned that he's about to release the second version,
which he's just calling V-HIC X.
Is it new hardware or is it an all new hardware and entirely different new module?
Um, yeah, it seems to take it to the next level.
He's also going to be producing a lot more than just 50 this time around.
Um, he said he has received interest from about 200 different people and he says he
has the components to try to do around three to 400.
Um, and he's going to be doing them in batches of like 50 to 100 at a time.
Um, the first 25, suppose it'll be released this month, but it's just going to be the
local buyers in Australia.
Mm, it's going to be like the pilot run to see if, you know, it's functional and all
that.
And then if it's working fine, he's going to open it up to international sales.
Um, the new version features 24 bit input output stereo processing, which is cool because
I love wave table based processing and maggling.
Um, yeah, that's, that's the big one for me.
He also says that there will be some banks dedicated just for processing this time around.
Um, there will be CV control over everything now, including the generative functions.
Oh, nice.
Uh, which have also undergone some improvements, whereas instead of just like flipping to random
modes, you'll be able to scan through these like generative algorithms that he has in
there that just kind of shifts and morphs it.
Um, 27 new modes altogether.
Uh, volume control for the input output levels, a dedicated VCA with a CV control in the output.
Um, it'll save current parameters when you power it off and price tag their aim and for
525 USD.
So kind of steep for complex oscillator, but I kind of view it more as just an oscillator
means more like a oscillator slash processor slash just drone texture machine kind of self
contained.
That's why it appealed to me in the first place.
Um, which was the, the first version.
I forget.
I want to say like 350.
Okay.
Could be wrong.
Is it like same size, like bigger 24 HP.
So bigger, um, chunk bigger.
Um, so the screen now, I didn't have a screen before.
Did it?
I didn't before.
I don't remember if it does now.
He did send a picture in the email.
I forget if it had a little screen or not.
I don't think it does.
I think there's no menu diving.
That's for sure.
It's all like upfront, you know, all parameters are mapped to knob, basically or a switch.
So this, this sounds like chaos.
How do you intend to use it?
What's your, what's your plan for it?
Chaos.
Okay.
Like industrial, uh, soundscapes basically, um, and hopefully live performance.
Cause I, while like what it does isn't anything new to me, you know what I mean?
It kind of reminds me of like patches that I used to create using like two piss and Hondas
and like a rain maker, you know what I mean?
Or like just wave table based oscillators through delays and shit like that.
And I would use to make, um, just strange like textures and soundscapes live.
Like last time I performed, I was doing just that.
I had, um, I think it was a piston at the time and I was running it through a rain maker
and stuff like that.
And I was using it to make pseudo generative like textures, you know, like evolving over
time and randomizing when I would hit certain parameters and shit and I had some presets
saved.
Um, so this kind of feels like, uh, a shortcut for me to achieve that type of industrial,
you know, dirty raw sound, uh, in a self contained module.
It's chaos, but do, can you tighten it up and get control and get it to sort of repeat
sounds over and over again?
Yeah, you can.
Um, but you also don't at the same time.
Like the, the switches when you hit them, like it would shift things algorithmically.
You didn't have any control of what it was doing exactly.
And that was kind of the appeal for me.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
It was just kind of like, you know, just fucking around until you found something you
enjoyed, you know, and then you can expand it from there.
Um, I like that type of approach, um, especially in a life performance mode, you know what
I mean, to improvise on the spot and try to come up with something that I like.
But if our listeners are listening to this, it, it sounds like it's always this untamed
beast.
Like, you know, the, the only thing that's a little untamable that you don't have any
control over is like the, if you're hitting those algorithms, you know what I mean?
Okay.
To shift.
Yes.
If you get a sound you like you can actually, oh, I'm just going to keep using this.
Mm hmm.
Oh, okay.
Like different modes and then when you hit the, the seed button, it would, you know, change
accordingly depending on like what mode you were in.
Gotcha.
Okay.
And you know, the parameters are always still locked to those, uh, the same functions that
they do.
So like, you know, you just kind of rain it in that way, but at the same time there was
always, uh, potential to just get a new sound out of it.
You know, yeah, that was like not entirely intentional, uh, which I liked.
So yeah, hopefully that will be out soon.
I plan on getting one as soon as I can.
Um, you're going to keep the original one that you have or is it, I already sold it to
make room for this one.
That answer that question.
Yeah.
Like I wanted to make sure that I could get this as soon as I can.
And he's, he made a few other, um, I guess just version one.
He made like a handful more that he's selling, I guess to help make funds for this.
So, but it was still like super limited.
Are you, are you and everyone else who provided, uh, like feedback and like shout outs in the,
uh, manual?
I don't think so, but I think we can all pat ourselves in the back for having like a hand
in taking this to the next level, you know what I mean?
There's a Greg knob and it's more or less Greg new and some of the suggestions I had
people already made anyways in the thread.
So like I was just kind of like nodding in agreement as I was reading this stuff over
time.
I was like, yeah, yeah, but yeah, I'm excited for it.
It's probably the only oscillator around the horizon for me that I'm excited about.
And it was the version one was the last one I bought that really had me excited to.
So it's been a year where I haven't really dove too much into new oscillators.
So the first one was only a year ago.
Yeah, probably not even.
That's a pretty quick turnaround to version two.
Yeah.
Mm.
He's been, uh, he's been at it since like he released it.
Like people started giving feedback and he was like, yeah, I hear you.
And this is only their second model module they haven't done anything else in the interim
thing else in between.
There was pictures in the videos when this came out originally of like some other stuff
that didn't, you know, that was in his rack.
That was clearly stuff that he made.
It had the same type of like faceplates and stuff.
So I'm guessing he's working on some other stuff, but this is like, I guess his, his
opus that he's focused on.
Nice.
Yeah.
Digital chaos.
Yippee.
Yeah.
That's actually one of the things that I have to talk about.
I feel like we talked about it indirectly at one point.
Uh, I got a noise plethora from Befaco.
Oh, yeah, you did.
Um, it's the actual hardware.
I got some noise.
Yeah.
Yes.
It is a database of noise.
And I think my initial when we first popped up, I was like, oh, this doesn't seem like
anything I need, you know, like I have ways to make noise.
And then I remember you kind of, uh, kind of brushed it aside.
I did brush it a little aside.
I said, I already have noise sources.
I don't fucking need this trash.
I, you know what?
I don't remember correctly.
So that would make this garbage ass module.
Yeah.
You spit on the print out of it.
I think you use it for toilet paper at one point.
So my memory is really bad.
So all of this could be true.
I will believe everything you're saying.
I remember being lukewarm towards it though.
And then I saw some more demos and then was doing this sort of like, I need, I need a,
I do need a better sort of consolidated noise source and looked around and landed on this.
And basically had to take back everything I had said, um, months and or a year ago.
Uh, it's fucking amazing.
Yeah.
I love it.
It is, it is the noise texture toolkit Swiss army knife as a noise source as a modulation
noise source.
It's perfect.
As just using noise that you want, you know, if you need to make snare sounds or hi hats
or any of those sort of like percussive sounds with noise, you have an amazing amount of
control over shaping that.
Or if you just want to make an something and for a noise set, you could do an entire
noise set just from this module and a shit little modulation sources total flip on it.
And, um, so it's two generators.
Well, three generators, but the A and B generators are the same.
You choose, uh, there's three banks.
The banks are textures.
Um, it's just a lot of FM shit.
Um, HH clusters, which initially I thought was high hat clusters.
And then I was like, Oh wait, no, it means like, like high, high cluster, like math clustering.
Yeah.
Um, it was high hat cluster too.
It's, and it's a lot of like detuned and like this, like the spreading and indexing is like
the, the parameters you have, um, for it, or maybe I'm wrong, maybe it is high hat clusters.
But the more I thought about it, I was like, this seems really math heavy.
It's probably the high, high cluster in clustering algorithms.
What if I had just a mathematical construct that exists in the universe?
Let's shut it down.
We're going to get rated because that's like either by the FBI, the CIA, or the Illuminati.
Like that is not, that was not supposed to be spoken.
I'm sorry.
Wow.
I've been playing with the VCV or act version of it.
Yeah.
And enjoying it quite a bit.
I'm curious to see how it differs from the hardware.
I would be too.
Sounds any different.
I, I, the sonic, Oh, and I'm sorry.
And the last one is this, the C bank is just harsh, wild noise.
Mm hmm.
Chaos shed, um, like a sample or something like that.
Or how does that?
So the whole thing is digital.
Right.
Um, it's different.
It's a thing.
Yeah.
And then I think there's 10 algorithms in each of the banks.
Um, and then they have, depending on what you've chosen, it's either like, sign waves that have these different sort of relationships with one another.
And you've got two parameters that can modulate, either modulate them with F.
M or change our pitch or change the index on them.
Um, and then the harsh noise stuff is, you know, it's white noise or like, you know, a couple of like crazy, weird algorithms.
And then this changes to the parameters.
Um, what's, and then there's a third generator at the bottom that sits there and it's just a white noise and what's something called grit.
And there's a grit amount and there's three outputs for that one.
White noise just as is grit as is and then a filtered output.
It's the two of them filtered.
And each of the fill and all, all three of the outputs have these analog filters, even though it's entirely digital, it's analog filters.
And then all three in there, they've got a little switch for modes.
I pass low pass and bad pass.
This is like, that's cool.
Yeah, I was like shocked by how much shit they crammed into it.
Now there is one weird thing.
When I first was like, oh, I'm going to get this.
Like, oh, it's a kid.
I'm going to get the kid.
Yeah.
I'll make that.
I ended up getting a completed one from Perfect Circuit because it was only going to be like 15 more dollars.
It was wildly expensive kit.
The only place that had it was Thonk.
So I would have had to like get it shipped and when everything was done, I was like, it was going to be, like I said, about $15 less than just getting it from Perfect Circuit already done.
And it was, it looked like it was a bit of a monster build.
Lots of parts.
But yeah, no, it's fantastic.
And even just doing something as simple as the once you pick a bank, there's a CV input for the program, like, which, which, which,
which are those 10 algorithms you have for that bank, that's CVable.
So just firing CV into that just changes in morphs that over time.
Super responsive to CV, even like taking noise out from the third generator and using that as a to change the program.
Yeah, it's good for self-patching.
I honestly wasn't going to talk about it much because it's kind of been my secret rhythmic noise weapon for the last couple months.
Blowing up your spot.
I am sorry for blowing it up because it is.
Yeah, the self-patching of this thing is just.
Fucking amazing.
Yeah, I absolutely absolutely love this thing.
Like, I feel bad for how Luke Warm I was to it.
Yeah, I mean, your Luke warm attitude towards it made me kind of disregarded for a while too.
And then like, I just happened to see that it was available for VCP.
And I was like, guys, this is that thing that Dave, you know, shook off, gafaud at.
Stuck his nose.
Yeah.
I was like, oh, we try this and like playing around with it for a while.
I was like, mmm, I see a lot of like rhythmic noise potential here that I did not anticipate.
I was like, this thing's pretty cool.
Yeah, there's maybe two algorithms out of the entire set of 30 that I'd say.
Are like, OK and not great.
Each of them have two arguments.
There's an X and a Y.
They call it and they're different.
Their context sensitive based on what algorithm you pick, those are CVable.
The cutoff for the filter each of each filter has our own cutoff CV.
The grit amount has a CV.
It's yeah, it's really shockingly full featured and like you can just shape stuff in this
amazing way, like two enthusiastic thumbs up.
And again, Greg, I'm sorry.
I've a ruined your secret sauce there.
Secret weapon, man.
Yeah, I've been using a lot in the recordings of and doing lately.
We'll throw them all out, man.
That's it. Yeah.
Now it's a now it's gonna be trendy.
Exactly.
Cause that's how we throw it all away.
That's what our recordings do.
This episode set trends.
So what happens when you're an influencer, Dave?
Are we influencers or are we synth flu inserts?
Jesus Christ.
I edit that the fuck up up until recently, dude.
I didn't even know that synth fluencer was a term.
Yeah.
Or a synth tuber.
Oh, I've seen both getting tossed around lately.
We didn't get from that red means recording shit.
That's since tuber and synth fluencer, for some reason, it just like brings to mind an image
of like some bro dude on a ski slope
and like a neon pink outfit chugging a red bull.
Hey, bro.
I'm a synth tuber.
Smash that subscribe button.
Smash that bell.
I'm gonna like and subscribe.
She's gonna go rolling to IRA energy drink or something like that.
Can't wait to peep the new electron digs, bro.
I hate it.
It's like the worst term ever.
I thought influencers sucked, but yeah.
Synth fluencer or fucking synth tuber is.
Yeah, that feels gross.
Synth tube is just there's something unsettling about like those two words beside each other.
I don't like that at all.
So I feel like that was on your list of things to discuss.
Oh, bitching about red means recording.
OK, that's what that was.
Can I rant?
Please, I would love to rant a little bit about it.
It's been bothering me for weeks, to be honest.
Like do you think we're going to hold you back?
Maybe.
No, there's no, there's no like the gates open.
But what if ranting about other synth fluencers,
ruins our prospect of becoming big since Fluencers, Dave?
Everyone's banding together.
They're unionizing to fight against the big music gear corporations, Dave.
Get what's fair for them.
Don't we want to ride that train to get what we deserve?
I like that both of us have trouble saying synth fluencers.
Yeah, it does not roll off the tongue.
And all.
Nick, can you say synth fluencer?
Do you say the fluencer?
Oh, yeah, when you do it quicker, it's hard.
Yeah, it's a hard word.
It's it's it's it's a winter.
It's wildly inorganic.
So go ahead, Greg.
The floor is yours.
Again, it's bringing like an image of like the cheesiest used car sales lot that you can imagine.
You know, but instead of like cars, it's just like gear.
Yeah, like you got the electron corner over there.
And this dude's in like a fucking popped collar dress shirt.
Hey, bro, what do I got to do to get you in this new octet track today?
So I'm going to go talk to my manager and I'm going to see what kind of sweet discount, bro.
I'll throw in a free MIDI cable.
I just got hired as the resident synth fluencer at Sweetwater.
Do I just speak something terrible into existence?
This is twice now.
Say that tonight.
You have you have caused cosmic damage.
That's what happens when you stay up to like six.
But yeah, it's I'm I'm assuming that most people that listen to us have only had some
exposure to the latest Red Means recording video.
Like because even big like music gear blogs have been talking about it.
And for the most part, shitting on it.
And I think rightfully so.
So in case they haven't, is there a sort of like a bumper sticker or executive elevator pitch?
Yes, Jeremy from Red Means recording has
main character syndrome and like real bad and thinks that like the whole industry
should revolve around what he considers a fair wage.
Because he sold his soul to be a fucking gear
shill and now feels like a cheap dirty whore.
And doesn't think that his value has been met.
Yeah, I don't know.
It doesn't make a whole lot of sense to me.
And this came out in the form of a very
a big video where he goes back and forth between cuts of him arguing his own points.
Yes.
Yeah.
In case we're too dumb to understand it or to come up with our own interpretations of what he's saying,
he interprets it for us and lets us know why he feels he should be paid more to do what he does.
Which is film a 10 minute long video of him wanking on a drum machine or a new sense and thinks that he should be getting enough money to pay his
mortgage, his words for doing this.
Yeah, it was a strange video and like I watched it and I was like, that was weird.
And then I tried to let it go.
But then like over the course of the week following the video, I saw it like being referenced everywhere, like in my Facebook feed, in my music gear blog feeds, like all that shit, like people.
Yeah, it became I almost missed it at first.
And yeah, what a little fire winner.
Like, yeah, it's in like right after you mentioned it.
Yeah.
Like, oh, I'm going to like see what the deal is here.
One bit viral and not really in a good way.
Like, I think in his mind, he imagined everyone like rallying behind him.
Yeah.
And I watched, I watched the video and what I was getting was a little bit of like the normal ray, like standing up and like shutting down the factory and there's going to be this workers revolt revolution and we were going to change the industry.
And like that's what I've and maybe I'm misinterpreting like what his intent was.
I mean, some of the stuff he was saying like made sense, like it started out.
OK, like one of the first things I took a note of.
He says, gear is fleeting.
It's creativity and time and passion that matters more than anything else.
And I was like, cool.
Yeah.
I'm following you.
I'll keep watching this video.
No.
But then like he goes back and forth talking about like how the industry needs to change because big manufacturers are taking advantage of him and people like him by paying him with heavily discounted gear or free gear that he can either keep or sell and then have the money for.
He says that that's not enough.
And he uses an example as a $500 drum machine is what he kept saying.
First off, I don't know what drum machine he's getting for $500.
Right.
But I know a lot of people that would gladly take that and say, thank you.
But he goes, I'm going to get this drum machine and I'm going to learn it and I'm going to make a video showing it off and making music with it.
And then if I don't say anything completely negative about it, other people will go and buy this drum machine.
So I'm left with this drum machine and I don't need a drum machine.
I can't pay my mortgage with a drum machine.
I can't feed my dog with a drum machine.
So to be fair, that is a fair point.
I mean, there's an economy here that we're talking about.
Is the value that he created with the work that he did worth more than that $500 machine?
No.
That is the I think that's the fundamental flop.
All of this is dude, you're just it's an ad.
You made an ad.
You made a slick ad.
You're also like it's almost like you're complaining about your ability to negotiate to this industry that you created yourself in a sense that nobody like putting the entire industry on blast.
Yeah, because your negotiation tactics or you literally feel like you're not getting paid enough after selling your soul to these companies that chill for them.
But don't do it.
Yeah, it's meant to be a hobby.
Or pivot into other business opportunities.
I mean, make a patreon page.
He has one.
But like there's other people that are in the same spot.
And in fact, arguably a lot of people are not just with synthesizers, but other people that are doing this type of work.
There's a hustle and I'm not at quote work.
Right.
But I'm not and I'm certainly not advocating for hustle culture.
Yeah.
But there are people that are like, OK, now I've got, you know, 10,000 viewers or I've got X number of viewers.
I'm going to parlay that into ad sales or these other things.
Like, yeah, if you want to do this for a living, you need to figure out what that next step is.
It can't be doing, which seems disingenuous because he doesn't bring that up.
He's not talking about the ad revenue that he's getting.
He's not talking about the patreon money that he's getting.
And if he is doing those things, then he is making his mortgage and is feeding his dog.
Even if he isn't like to be a synth fluencer, one would assume that you're doing it
because you love gear, right?
You have some spare time.
You want to make a fucking video about a piece of gear that appeals to you.
If you're not doing it for that reason, then why the fuck are you doing it?
Right.
Like to he seems like maybe that's how he started, but he seems to have lost his way.
And now he's angry because he's spending time making videos about shit.
He doesn't really want or care about, right?
And he expects it to pay his bills.
It's not that the similar from other people that like I know that have gotten into
making music as a living and then found out that making music for a living
isn't that great.
Yeah, it's actually a really difficult thing.
You have to make music.
You don't like anymore or you want to do something different, but you can't because
you've built a brand or the label wants you to do these other things.
Like this is not a dissimilar problem with other people that take a passion
and try to make a career out of it.
Right.
But at least with that, there's still some art involved, even if you're making shitty
pop music, there's some art involved.
There's no fucking art and being a
Yeah.
Blowing down.
Like, come on.
Like he added a couple colored LED lights to his videos.
And he was talking like, oh, I had to do this to step up my game.
Cause there's a lot of competition out there.
Like, bro, no one gives a fuck if you have an LED light in your video or not.
No one cares.
And compare that to like a Richard Divine Instagram video where there's fucking
colored lights everywhere.
And those are like captivating.
If you're going to do that, go all in.
Make a fucking crazy video.
Like, like if you take what you did with an LED strip and compare it to what
Richard Divine did or some of these other people that are just putting them on Instagram,
you fell flat, man.
Like you didn't.
And again, people like Richard Divine, like he's doing that as a side gig.
Yeah.
That's not his main gig.
That's not his career is making leap-flop videos on YouTube.
Like that's side gig.
His main gig is being a sound designer, being an artist, you know, like.
But his videos, there's some of the best videos when it comes to like
showcasing some of the scare because he puts a lot of thought and creativity
and care into those videos.
And that just pops off the off the screen.
Yeah.
And he's not trying to fashion them into something to, you know, market himself.
Or to add to his career, he's just kind of it is what he wants to do.
Yeah.
He does not have to do it.
Like I'm sure in some way there's a promotional benefit.
But at this point, he's the number one sound designer in the world has been for a long time.
Yeah.
I don't think there's nothing nowhere to go.
I don't understand at what point he decided like this should be a career.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And he feels cheated on it.
Like I'm no career counselor or anything.
Right.
But like if I was.
And some like ambitious kid.
Came into my office in high school and was like, Mr. Vanek, I want to be a
Sinfluencer when I grow up.
I'd say it's good to have dreams, kiddo.
But let's like focus on something a little more realistic.
We need to get those math grades up because you are not going to be able to do that.
Like why don't you be a fucking astronaut?
Because that would make more logical fucking sense as a career.
Yeah.
Than trying to fucking pay your mortgage as a Sinfluencer.
This is true.
I mean we should at this point though, devolve that we are making six and seven figures each
of us.
Oh yeah.
By doing that.
So like we're paid by Roland.
Right.
We're talking about somebody else.
Like a lot of three of us are we are absolutely rolling.
We're actually just mad because we have a choke hold on this cabal
of you know, Sinfluencing.
And we don't want people like Redmiin is recording getting in on the good.
That's the third secret this probably.
I'm saying, Jesus Christ.
So the subtitle, the tagline for this is a episode I already forgot the number
colon secrets.
Yeah.
Sinfluencer Illuminati.
I don't, I can't wrap my head around like why he feels like he should get paid more
when you're doing something that's like literally a hobby.
And he even mentions there's a ton of competition.
Yeah.
There's a ton of other people doing this.
Like if he doesn't want the five hundred dollar drum machine, or if that's not enough,
there's plenty of people behind him that will gladly take it and make a video about it.
Right.
And they'll probably do it with some passion and an unbiased opinion here and there too,
which clearly you can't trust him for at this point.
He's he's proven that he has sold his integrity.
Right.
There was a few comments I saw that people were leaving on his video that just like resonated with me to most.
This one for example says,
aren't most small manufacturers actually the ones getting taken advantage of by hundreds of
wannabe YouTubers demanding free shit?
Yeah.
Oh, that's fine.
That is, that's a really good point.
I was like, I agree with that one.
Yeah.
And I saw another one that I liked.
This person said, I prefer unbiased reviews.
Once you get paid by a company, you no longer are unbiased.
And besides the perks these influencers quote unquote are getting is of course clicks.
They also get ample access to free software and hardware.
I sometimes feel us viewers are getting taken advantage of via the skewed
messaging.
We have talked about that on this show.
We have because we were literally just talking about that last episode.
It's so hard to find somebody just sitting down and having an honest interaction with a piece of gear and going,
here's what I liked and here's what I didn't like.
Yes.
The second you get that vibe of like, you're getting something out of it.
Even when they go to like, here's the part that didn't like,
is it or are you just saying that because you know you have to have a thing you didn't like.
Right.
And you're kind of phoneing.
It's like the self review assessment.
Like, what can you work on this year?
Well, I have to find something to nitpick.
I can be a bit of a perfectionist.
Yes, exactly.
They're just they're just phoning that negative in in order to like, appear unbiased.
That the comment that I just said, while that much was good,
there was a second part to that I forgot to say to.
He says, what he fails to account for while playing an exploited victim by the music industry
is that he also takes in Patreon money and ad revenue from YouTube.
And yeah, yeah, you know, yeah.
So like, if you're going to do this, that's the hustle.
Getting the Patreon, getting the ad revenue, merch, get a fucking T public site and sell T-shirts.
Like, do the hustle that a music band would have to do.
Right.
Yeah.
That's the thing.
He's trying to like, word it like his character, aka his brand,
is worth more than others.
But it's like, is it though?
Like, you don't have like, I don't know him from anything else other than some mediocre
YouTube videos.
Like, he's not an artist.
I've never listened to his music.
I don't know him for sound design.
I don't think he has had a following leading up to him being a synth fluencer.
So it's like, okay, you don't have a brand.
You're trying to force yourself as a character upon people.
And that's the problem.
Probably a little more subjective, but honestly, of the people that are doing this as influencers,
he's got the lowest charisma, the lowest personality.
Yes.
Compared to Ben Jordan, compared to even Ricki Tender.
And you're long.
Yeah.
The people out there that for better or worse, and I'm not advocating you go and check them out,
but like, if you're going to be like, hey, listen, I'm a character.
Yeah, where you're...
You're getting a little creative with your videos.
Yeah, really fucking boring, dude.
Turning on a couple LED lights is not getting creative.
Kuku.
Yeah.
Kuku, none of us here want to talk about Kuku.
You're going to trigger me, Dave.
But like, if you were going to be an internet character, that is a fucking character.
Right.
I can see people being like, yeah, gravitated to that weirdo.
Yeah.
No one's like, oh, Red means recording.
I want to have a drink with that guy.
What?
I've always found him kind of cringey.
And his latest video was just like, so like, weird and off-putting to me that I don't think
I'll ever watch his overview videos again.
I had to mute the Twitter.
It's that like, it's just, it's a rough one.
Yeah, I'm not trying to just shit on him.
He's not alone here.
There are people that are getting behind him on this.
Some of them like, I jotted down the names.
Heinbach is supporting him telling him this video is very important.
Bo beats or something.
I can't remember his name.
Is that his name?
Yeah.
Is that just like, hit after hit in my life?
I don't know.
The people that I don't watch, right?
Right.
Yeah.
But yeah, I mean, it was like you're saying, there's a reason why
I stick to just a couple people when I go for YouTube synth videos.
It's a div kid for the most part.
Blush response.
Oh, yeah.
Joey Blush.
Like he, I got a shirt on.
Shot off.
I'm wearing a blush response shirt, but full disclosure,
this is my fancy shirt.
I wore this to the symphony.
Because I was like, oh shit, I don't have like a collage.
I've, I'm a dirt bag.
Yeah.
Like I only have t-shirts.
I chose and wore this because it's my newest shirt.
Nice.
And therefore it was the nicest shirt.
I don't know your blush response fan dude.
I got this when I ordered a bunch of tapes and records from him.
I threw a shirt and I, yeah.
And his videos are astounding.
They're a blast.
He's having fun.
Yeah, he's having fun.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Like I don't watch this stuff for like technical overviews necessarily.
I go to div kid for stuff like that or lupop.
But like, Joey's just getting gear that he thinks is interesting.
And he's having a fucking phone with it.
And he's using it in a weird non-conventional noisy way generally.
And I'm like, yay.
And he has that response every once in a while where he's excited about the sound.
He just giggles like a mad man.
Yeah.
Like that's worth it.
Every time I'm just like, oh dude, I know that feeling.
That's what we're all chasing.
Right.
Is he shilling for these companies?
Maybe.
But he's having fun with it.
And he's not demanding more.
And he's not trying to take advantage of his viewers.
Right.
Which is what annoys me the most about this.
Like, I don't know.
No, I like that it's his opinion.
I try even like my so fear review on one hand where I think like,
oh, it's a bad review technically.
But it's like, we could start another podcast where we read manuals back to people too.
But I'd rather hear like how somebody's using something.
Right.
That helps me get a better understanding of how I might like get lost.
I think we've said from the start that we wouldn't get too technically over-viewy
with our shit that we talk about here.
Because manuals exist.
Exactly.
You don't need me to read it.
You know what I mean?
I think people listen to us because it would rather hear our hot takes on whether or not
we like something and why.
And not just reading a manual into a microphone necessarily.
Right.
So yeah, I don't know.
It just kind of irked me a bit.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
It's like, we do this because we like doing this.
You know, like we're not expecting some big fucking payout someday from like Roland or
anything or Electron or whatever because we've mentioned their shit on our show.
That would be wild if Electron paid us to shit on their gear.
Yeah.
Oh my god.
That would be kind of, I would respect it.
Like some like Dom shit.
Like, like they just get off on us like shitting on their product and like,
yeah.
In each one they rate as to like how close we are to getting like a digitone or something like that.
But that was a little weak.
But they're all still track, but they're all still just jerking off every time.
Oh, that's it.
Abuse me.
I am Phil.
Electron takes a strange turn.
It's just all about us and him at this point.
Tell me how limited this new Digitact is.
Right.
How bad do you want this black machine drop panel?
That was like, I said that in a German voice.
Jesus Christ.
I'm sorry people.
You don't want to be me.
Surprisingly, we do have listeners over there.
Yeah.
So let's not let's not offend our German audience.
True.
We know you guys do more than just talk down to people in sexual manners.
I was talking about Beargine being in lab and being pissed on.
His concerns of mine were just there and gave the description to me and it was just
enthralling talking about walking around.
I was glad that I had higher heel shoes to make it through the shit.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
And how the smell of feces permeates a lot of it.
I really want to go sometime.
Like, you made it more intriguing.
Yeah.
Was there anything else you want to talk about with that note?
No, I just wanted to say that I think it's weird.
Agreed.
Yeah.
And we were already talking less episode how we felt like the whole
chilling got really bad last year with these types of people and how everyone was
releasing basically the same videos, saying the same thing.
Like none of it is per a script but it might as well be.
Yeah.
Like for most of these people.
And I think that market is kind of imploding upon itself.
And I think some people are just going to go quietly into the night and make room for new blood
who might be more creative and less biased.
Or these types like him are just going to try to have a desk rip on it and gate keep
and cry victim and try to band together and ruin it for other people.
Yeah.
Hopefully it's a former not a latter.
And start coming with innovations like this, like 15 second menu review.
Mutable Blinds by polar voltage controlled modulation and mixing.
How the fuck does nobody else make that?
What's up?
Fun.
And a review got new questions?
Good.
Have dad's list.
I've wanted a blinds forever.
Because of that.
So good.
Yeah.
No.
How the fuck did I not get along with this?
Like how many things do that?
Yeah.
And it's like a bipolar CV controlled mixing and modulation.
So useful.
Yeah.
It's hustle hard to get right now.
Yeah it is.
I got one useful.
Cyrus wanted one.
He was like, yo, blinds looks awesome.
I'm like it is.
And he was like, how come I can't buy it.
I was like, it's a beautiful doesn't exist anymore.
Nobody clones either.
Not even after later?
I feel like they might now.
OK.
Some people do like a two channel.
Like the DVCA.
Yeah.
It's called or something like that.
But not the four.
And as far as like I've been feeding a lot of voltages
into like quantizers and shit and not like doing pitched melodies.
And it's just fucking awesome for that.
Bipolar VCA has been very important to me over the last couple months.
A few months rather for doing feedback,
patching and modulation.
Yeah.
So I don't have a blinds because I couldn't get one when I wanted one.
I ended up finding an alternative.
It's from nano modules.
It's called ALT.
It's a three channel bipolar VCA.
And then it has a fourth challenge.
It's like regular VCA.
Oh, that's very nice.
Yeah.
I kind of stumbled upon it in my quest to find a blinds.
And I was like, this will do.
Who's what's the manufacturer?
Nano modules.
I've never heard of them.
Yeah.
They have a couple small utility.
I have another one by them.
It's a quad VCA.
I'm sorry, not VCA envelope generator.
Oh.
It has three different speeds per channel.
It kind of reminded me of like aquatics a little bit.
Speaking of envelope generators,
that's something else on my list.
Oh, what do you got?
So it was something else I brought to show off.
Again, I didn't bother to plug it in.
I got a from 4MS.
The single end of a VCA.
There's a dual NV.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, but I just got the single one.
Full disclosure, I kind of wish I had gotten the double.
Yeah.
It's really like the single one's really nice.
And now I'm like, fuck, I want more of this.
It's really nice.
I think-
What made you get that over like the single pig?
Like I've been wanting that mini pig.
Because I wanted the, it's a VCA and envelope tied together.
Okay.
That's what I was looking for.
I wanted to sort of have-
Isn't mini pig?
No, my rock.
Or my rock.
It's just envelope.
There's no VCA.
Okay.
Some reason I was-
Maybe I'm getting these two combined in my head.
It's possible to get me-
You dropped them at the same time.
They were the same time.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, the mini pig was something else I was looking into,
but that's a separate utility that-
I can review that next time.
I have thoughts on that.
Oh, really?
That I have one.
Oh, you have one?
Oh, I didn't know you had one.
I got it kind of right when it came out.
Because I love the pig so much.
I was going to say you had the full-
I've both back in the mix now, actually.
After I got 301 out of the mix,
that freed up a lot of space,
because I had the test rack thing too,
and the full-size pig went back in.
Because it has some advantages.
Well, let me go through this and then-
Yeah.
I kind of want to hear you.
So the NVCA-
It's an envelope, NVCA in one.
It's got three sliders,
and it is rise and fall.
And the third slider is a little weird.
It's basically the amount that the internal envelope
that's being generated,
when it has its own independent output.
Outside of being normal to the VCA,
you can use that envelope for something else.
That is basically an attenuator on it.
So the rise and fall,
each have their own separate speed from like,
absolutely just like milliseconds,
like 12 milliseconds, I think.
It's three stage.
It's like fast,
mid, and slow.
And you can set them independently.
It's incredibly snappy to the point of barely audible,
to like 12 minutes.
The range on these envelopes is huge.
And then it's normal to this VCA,
and it takes an input and an output for audio,
or if you wanted to send CV to it,
you could use it in that way too.
But it seems like it was intended to be with audio.
One downside is that it's all linear.
However, one of the cool things is there's a time CV.
And the rise and fall,
both have a 10 U Verters for this input,
which you can then just self-patch the envelope
that you're generating into that,
to give exponential and logarithmic shapes.
Yeah, it's really very cool to stuff you can do with it over time.
And I didn't either.
And it's actually in the manual,
which I thought was a really nice bonus for 4MS to be like,
"Hey, you probably noticed that there's no ADSR."
Well, here's how you make it.
There's no, it's linear,
but here's how you make it different than that.
Like their little cookbook in the manual
was really well thought out,
because there is cycle,
you can cycle it on and off,
which is not super exciting.
However, cycle is its own gate input.
So you can just send a gate and turn cycling on and off independent,
which is weird, but also like,
it's kind of cool effect.
And there's a trigger,
like a gate trigger,
which does what you would expect it to do.
But what's really cool is the follow input.
And what it is is,
whenever you have voltage going into follow,
it's almost like a slew.
It's the envelope is going towards that voltage.
And that's how you get things like ASR and ADSR
from this very, very small footprint.
That's cool.
Yeah.
So if you send a gate from like a keyboard
to both the trigger and this follow,
you can get the ASR from that.
You take the envelope that's separate envelope.
It's kind of like a hold?
Yeah.
Okay.
But hold more of like,
instead of stopping it where it's at,
it's the voltage is going at the rate that the rise in the fall is set to
towards that voltage.
God.
So you actually kind of get like,
it's more like slew than a proper sample and hold hold.
Like it's not like,
okay, I'm going to hold it right here.
It's more like,
oh, here's the voltage up here.
Based on the rise, the rate of the rise,
I'm going to make my way there.
It's really, it's a,
for such a small footprint,
it does a lot of really cool stuff.
It's just you kind of have to like,
think in the way that they want you to think.
Like if you don't,
if you just like send the trigger,
you got rise and fall,
you kind of have a bland,
linear envelope,
normal to a VCA,
which is fine.
I'm sure like,
there's a lot of uses for that.
It's when you start
plugging all of the stuff in
and doing stuff with the inputs
and shaping it,
you get really cool effects.
I think it's incredibly well designed
to the point where once I got it
and started using it and was like,
this is a fantastic job.
Shit, that dual
has all of that and a couple more things.
I honestly,
I will be shocked if in the future,
I do not get one of the duals.
I'm a huge fan of it.
I think they nailed it.
That sounds, I didn't,
I thought it was less flexible than that
when I first saw it and was like,
oh, it's a slow,
you know, with the VCA,
which I have like javelins
and they're cool.
Right.
I love them actually,
but saw that and just was like,
oh, I already have one of these,
so I like to get it.
Are the LEDs extremely bright,
the point of being annoying?
They are white LEDs,
which is not my favorite.
I think it's a little brutal,
but they're not,
no, they're not bad.
They are,
they're fucking punishers,
is what they are.
Those LEDs.
But they are,
there's a resistor there
that shows the intensity.
So as you have the envelope down,
it's less bright than when you have it all the way up.
I probably will scrape them.
They're the sort of like slider LED
that might pop it out and...
I use this little LED covers
online and they work
because it's like,
the original peg like to,
and so the thing was,
first module I built
and I've had it in case,
to some extent,
since I got the mini peg,
it was the only time,
first time I took it out,
it felt weird.
I like the mini peg a lot.
It's got offset
and a 10-ning version on the output,
so you can kind of scale it
right there,
which is nice and the original doesn't have.
And it has a detented
in potentiometer
to control the time
and it has more time values,
but it's also kind of annoying in that regard.
And I wish they had like a range switch
because it's really like,
biddly to get to the value you want to on there.
Like you can get to it,
but I wouldn't want to use it live,
whereas the peg I would use live.
They merge the skew
and the shape controls
into one control
instead of having it be two,
which is kind of cool.
I get why they did it,
it makes sense,
but I liked having them individually CV controlled,
like it's kind of nice for a modulator like that,
to be able to do that.
I like both of them,
it's awesome.
I totally recommend it.
LEDs are too bright on all that stuff.
I wish they had some
potentiartrimmer on the back
where you could adjust it
or something like some companies do,
because theirs are just like super bright.
Yeah, what else?
It's really nice.
I really like it.
It does have the magic of the peg,
but I like having them both.
It made me like I had it in a couple of days
and it didn't replace the other one for me.
You know, the original two
in this one is just one.
Obviously, it's like the mini
cross modulate.
Yeah, they work great together, of course.
Yeah.
I'm a big fan of range,
which is on the low generators.
And that's what the NVCA has.
It has the short medium and long,
and I think they did a great job
of figuring out what that was.
Like the short is for like
just that sort of like almost glitchy.
Like you're not going to make a percussion from that.
It's the mid is the one that you want
where you're like,
you're going to make a snare sound.
That's the one you want.
But if you're doing like a fucking drone set
and you want that fucking,
you know, two minutes,
just letting that fucking ride,
you hit it up to slow,
and it's all just a tiny switch.
And the fact that it's on the rise
and fall independently,
I think it's a really great idea.
Like you can have an absolutely tight rise
and just a slow asphalt.
So you get that brick wall up,
and then just taper out or vice versa.
Yeah, I don't have a javelin,
but like that was the other thing I was looking at
before I got this.
And I think those switches
and that sort of flexibility
is what drove me towards this.
I could see that.
Yeah, like the javelins a lot.
They've grown on me.
They're definitely super useful,
especially now that I have a
DVCA to like de-click some stuff.
If I need that,
it's like a super sweet set up.
I love my DVCA from
after later.
Oh yeah.
There's something weird about the idea
that it took so long to get the idea of like
if you don't have the outputs,
nothing on that output,
it's just going to go mixed into the next one.
Right, right.
Like that's such a great idea,
but like it took so long to get there.
Yeah, that's how it's very similar.
Like blinds is very just like a
voltage controlled version of the
phonetronic cascade,
which I have to,
and similar thing like they're
chained below.
So you can see it's like you're doing math,
you know, essentially with the value
and you see the resulting thing as a cascade.
It's a nice like way to work.
It makes sense for me,
you know, just my brain.
So at this point,
I have nothing else on my list,
and I feel like we skipped past
the cosmetics.
Yeah, we should probably circle back
to the cosmic cosmic.
I forget how we even veered off track with that.
Well, we started listed it when we started.
Yeah.
I just sort of like just like
muscled my way in there.
Because I'm a big tough guy.
I kicked a bunch of things over.
I was like, we're doing my thing.
Look at my list,
it's handwritten.
So Nick,
cosmetics.
Cosmetics, cosmetics pro,
and cosmotronic.
So you had the original.
Had the OG.
Yeah.
Used it for a while.
I guess I realized it had more noise
than I thought when I was trying to do
some cleaner stuff,
like pasted on, got that,
got into the frapped tools.
Mix got the quad stereo channel,
and the group and the output,
which I love, like frapped,
that mixing is awesome.
But I got to the point where I kind of
wanted another mixer to.
I realized I have like two stereo outs
coming from my modular.
And that's kind of how I,
that's my limit,
like doing music stuff.
Like to have those,
and I realized I wanted like two
concentrators,
or whatever if you have two mixers
to like funnel stuff into those outputs,
and I wanted like effects control.
Saw the cause mix.
So one of the things was like
ultra low,
and it's like super clean.
Like you can tell he was making like a break,
to be like, not like the old one.
And it has like a true stereo
aux end, which is super rare.
Not any pieces of your hat.
Yeah, how incredibly rare.
Because I've hunted for that forever.
Yeah.
It was one of the first things I
remember when I started making music.
I was like,
"Why is this end just mono?"
And then people being like,
"Tew, ooh, you know, why not?"
And I get like why mixers have been that way.
But for like,
if you're trying to do like,
sound designing type stuff,
like is very useful.
So I got that after,
you know,
sold the 301 and stuff.
It was like kind of shuffling stuff around.
Got it and like tested it out.
And it's like actually a little quieter,
even than the Frappe tools QSC,
which was like,
when I got it,
the quietest mixer I'd ever had.
It was like a revelation.
I was like,
"Oh shit, this is like,
I would mix gear through this probably."
And it would sound as good as anything else.
I have or better.
But what did that,
because of the true stereo?
I wanted more channels.
It has the clicklist mutes.
And it also has like a simpler layout.
It's like,
looks like a little Mac-y practically,
you know,
it's like very standard layout.
Sorry to interrupt.
How many channels does it have?
Oh, I think it's like,
4 mono 2 stereo.
Oh wow.
Oh, thanks.
Rock's.
Okay, gotcha.
It's a lot.
It's a good number of stuff.
One thing about the Frappe QSC
is like kind of the way the layout is.
Like the things that are
associated with the channel,
they kind of line up above,
but they're at like angles
and kind of jagged.
That's always throwing me off.
And this is more like just
right in a line.
Straight forward.
Something about that.
The protocol layout.
Yeah.
Like really helps my brain.
Big nice lit mute buttons,
which every mixer in the world
should have in my mind.
They're clickless.
10 millisecond delay is how we did it this time.
On the original one,
I thought it was a little like,
it was hard for me to use live.
It was a little flabby to like,
unmute and mute.
You had to definitely do it before.
This one is like kind of perfect, I think.
You almost will think it's off,
but then when you use it,
it's like you can click it quickly
and it's dead on.
So it's a really nice mix,
I think of that functionality.
Sounds good as fuck.
I was surprised at how clean it sounds
because I did just a quick like.
So it's clean,
but when I was reading up on it,
recently, it can get dirty, right?
You can't.
You can push the channels
and the game territory.
You can push the channels.
Do you have a separate gain
or is this just like after a certain point?
I think it just has a lot of head room.
Gotcha.
There's a certain like slider level
and above that level,
it will overdrive it a little, nothing like the OG.
I was gonna say, have you experimented with it at all?
Like, it sounds good.
Good clipping.
Are we talking like,
Mackie old school clip?
Yeah, not even close.
Okay, okay.
Way more calm than that.
Sure.
Because I still have my version one column.
I had two at one point.
Yeah, yeah.
Summed it down to one,
which I still like,
I use it mainly as like,
I mean, I know it's a little bit noisy,
but I love the distortion circuit
that's built into it
and the per channel saturation.
So I keep it as a effect more so than like a mix
so you're different than that.
It's another company made a mixer.
I would love to have both.
Yeah, I think that would,
because it has the Expander connector too.
And you can just feed the main output
right into the like mix of the other one
without even using up a channel.
So wait, wait, so into the original?
Yeah, it's interchangeable.
Oh, shit, that's one of them.
Like he has that Expander function
and you work between two,
which is really cool.
I think both of them would be ideal.
I think you'd get your clean,
you'd get your like beefy dirtiness of the other one.
It looks like the perfect live performance mixer to me.
Oh, I think as soon as I got it,
I was like,
this is,
if I would ever play live with the module again,
this would be the core of it.
No question.
It's just so easy to see what's going on.
You get two sends and returns that are on board.
Like on the frapples QSC,
you got to use,
you got to either have the group
or you've got to use one of the stereo channels
for your effects return.
Yeah.
And it's only got the mono out there.
The frapp does have voltage controlled cross fading
and then voltage controlled effects
sends on a couple of the channels on the outer edge,
which is like,
Oh, that's pretty cool.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that's like why I would never get rid of that.
I would never want to,
I like having both of those mixers together.
It's really nice.
It's kind of like my weird version of the
WMD performance mixer,
which is a little,
I like the way both of them operate.
It's very different and do different things with them.
And there's a lot of cross-ponaching potential too.
Right.
Sometimes I'll take the output
and just put it into the frapp tools.
So you have like,
over half a row just dedicated to these mixers.
It's pretty close to like half of a 104 HP row.
Yeah.
Like the mixing.
Yeah, including the expanders for the frapp tools.
Yeah.
Which I like,
that'll like my one main case is like,
effects and mixing.
In other cases, like analog stuff and oscillator sound sources.
Then I've got like a modulation case that's focused on that.
Like, I like having these logical separations now.
And then like a palette for sequencing,
because I do a lot of that in the half-backs.
And that's like,
been very productive for me to like break stuff up that.
Which I'm thinking,
the next move is I'm going to get,
I'm going to get some color-coded tendrils
and start to patch voices for color
and be like, this voice right here is all white,
or it's all red or something.
Man, that is starting to go there.
That's amazing,
because I have just a like dog pile of cables and like,
you're the length I need,
I'm putting you in and then like,
not even just hours later,
like days later,
I've got like patches that run,
and I'm like building over the course of days.
And I come back and I'm like,
I literally have no idea what you're doing anymore.
Yeah.
Like the idea of color coding would be,
would solve so many problems with my shitty memory.
It's good, I do it a lot in a ACV rack.
I do it a lot in ACV rack.
Yeah, yeah.
Because you had white cables.
I still do.
Physical.
Yeah, like.
And I just like my white cables all along.
Yeah, yeah, it looks cool.
Yeah, I get it.
I've had people shit talk to me from my white cables.
Wait, really?
Yeah.
Oh, when the lights bounce off of it?
Johnson.
Oh, really?
That's all I'm going to say.
Yeah.
Oh.
But yeah, like in VCV rack,
because you can color code everything,
like it's very handy.
Yeah.
And if I remember to do it,
but also I don't.
Sometimes because it's a virtual rack,
I can change it after the fact
and color code stuff and reverse engineer things a bit.
But even still like you're saying,
like coming back to it after the fact,
I don't remember what the fuck's what anymore.
Yeah.
So got to try to do it as you're doing it.
You know what I mean?
To really make the system work.
Yeah, but it's something that's come up through
just using my system recently.
Oh my god, this would be a lot easier.
And especially like,
oh man, think it'd go back in time
and put like behind the panel,
clocking standards into modules.
It would save so much.
Like I don't change that stuff.
I just need to make it be like a color
so I can just let it disappear
when I look at it right now,
because I don't want to look at those.
Like I don't need to know.
I just want to build and trace stuff down more quickly.
And I think colors could help.
I remember seeing a comment on Mod,
where someone noted that that mixer
I think has 28 VCA's in total,
like builds into it to make it all.
Oh yeah.
Because there's so much voltage
can still control stuff in there.
It's a lot of VCA's and a very tight package.
Yeah, those fuckers get warm.
I've seen people note that too,
saying it doesn't get hot,
but it definitely gets warm.
I love it.
I think there stuff like is,
I like really obviously I've gushed about it on here before.
And that was like,
the passing comment.
Yeah, it's nice to hear
your thoughts on it more and dope.
Yeah, somebody on one of the patrons,
I forget who mentioned that.
And I just happened to get the Cosmix Pro.
I figured I'd elaborate a little.
Either one's a great fucking choice.
If I was playing live,
more I'd go for the Cosmix Pro.
Yeah.
I think in general,
if I really had to choose,
I would choose the Cosmix Pro.
Because that stereo is said,
it's dope too,
to be able to have like a panning sound
and be able to reverb it
and retain the panning without having to use
like a separate chain.
You know, that's kind of,
yes.
Pretty sweet.
Oh yeah.
If you like,
your panning to be retained.
[Music]